[Music]
creating a media company is a great idea
creating a media company to monetize
advice and BuzzFeed is a bad idea you're
not going to end up doing well don't
monetize the media
figure out how to build an audience and
sell into something else
[Music]
alright so we are going to talk about
what BuzzFeed and vice declines tell you
about media businesses so just to set
the stage for this one BuzzFeed news was
shut down and vice who was once valued
at 5.7 billion dollars they're now
potentially on the verge of bankruptcy
how to think about these media companies
and why we think this is happening and
what we think they could have done
instead yeah so if you're seeing
declines in things like Google and
Facebook and their ad Revenue why
wouldn't you see declines in Vice and
BuzzFeed we have so many options for
media and news and entertainment whether
it's Instagram or Tick Tock
possibilities are endless now there's
always a new Social Network that's
popping up it's gonna take away time and
attention from Vice BuzzFeed all the
other channels SEO is also becoming more
and more competitive a lot of these
platforms we're relying on social
traffic which has been cramped down
unless you want to spend money which is
hard for them to do because they spend
money it's hard to Arbitrage the ad
revenue on their end a lot of these guys
weren't SEO plays and even if they are
SEO plays SEO is competitive it can do
well which is also hurting a lot of
these guys's Revenue but when I look at
media companies the big issue with a lot
of them is if you don't have the
distribution ex television you know
movies magazines and a lot of eyeballs
and you're taking an omni-channel
approach it's going to be hard for you
to survive the other thing too is if you
are in business right now creating a
media company is a great idea creating a
media company to monetize advice and
BuzzFeed is a bad idea look at media
like the Kardashians or Ryan Reynolds or
Lebron James or even what Eric and I are
doing on a much smaller scale to these
celebrities figure out how to build an
audience and sell into something else
don't monetize the media monetize up
product or a service that you can sell
not someone else's Proctor service
because it doesn't convert the same when
you're being an influencer it has to be
your own and it has to be something that
really resonates with your audience and
what you're known for and you care about
it because if you don't care about it
you're not passionate about it the
quality of the product and the service
is going to be and you're not going
to end up doing well the one thing I'll
add here is another good example of
Logan Paul on his prime drink he's just
doing a lot of collaborations he's
leveraging his distribution leveraging
other people's distribution at the end
of the day distribution and attention
are key are you really going to beat an
optimized machine a money printing
machine like a Google or a Meta Even a
Microsoft or an Amazon if you want to
capture more profit you want to capture
more margin it's in your best interest
to figure out how you can go about
either taking equity in a company or
having your own Equity where you're
selling your own products or services
and you don't necessarily even need to
have a huge audience but it's the same
Playbook over and over and over I talked
about this in a previous episode where
when you're doing this and you're trying
to create a media company it's not about
how many eyeballs you're getting it's
about how big is your market so for
example if you're in a
Market that has only call it 50 000
people I'm making up the size but let's
say you're going after something like
mesothelioma right it's this cancer that
people get and the lawsuits are worth an
arm and a leg and I hope no one has it
even though the audience size is really
small the monetization is massive and
you can make millions and millions if
not hundreds and millions of dollars on
the flip side if you're in a market
where it resonates with everyone you can
have like a million 10 million followers
but it doesn't monetize well you're
out of luck so don't necessarily if
you're trying to create a media company
worry about the audience size worry
about the market size instead and it's
called Tam total addressable Market the
bigger the market
right and the market is defined by how
much money is spent not the people but
the money spent the better off you are
so Focus creating media around a big
Market from a money standpoint right
where a lot of Revenue or money is being
spent all right so that is it for today
hope you enjoyed it please don't forget
to rate review And subscribe baby we'll
read out some of the names as well your
ratings and reviews have been super
helpful so please keep doing it and we
will talk to you later
now if you have any questions leave a
comment below I'm here to answer them
and help you out if you enjoyed the
video like it share tell people about it
thank you very much